Over the next few lectures, you're going to learn how to work with files and
directories in python, in this lecture you're going to look at the path class  because that's
the foundation to work with files and directories. So,
from the path lib module let's import
path class now we can create a path object in a few different
ways. We can create an absolute path, for example if you're on windows
you can create a path object like this. C drive
\\program files\Microsoft
or whatever, now when working with a long path, these double back slashes
get a little bit ugly, so we can simplify this by using a raw
string. In a raw string, back slash is not going to
stay in character, it's taken literally as is. So,
you prefix this with an r, now we have a raw string so we can get
a bit of the second backslash, like this.
Now if you're on Mac or Lennox, you can create an absolute path like
this, /usr/local/bin
you can also create the path object that represents the current folder.
Or we can use a related path here, so current folder
let's go to the ecommerce sub folder and then pick
init.py we can also combine path objects
together for example you can have one path object and then using
a slash combine it with another path
or you can also combine a path object with a string, so here
we can have a string. And then again we can
combine this with another string. We can
also get the home directory of the current user, so this path class
has a class method called home, that returns the home directory
of the current user. So these are various ways to create the path object,
in this demo, I'm going to use what we have on line 6,
so, let's delete the rest, and store the result
here. Now this path object has quite a few useful members.
And in this section I'm going to show you the most important ones, but if you want to see
a comprehensive list, simply search for Python 3,
path lib. On this page we can see all the members
of path class. So with this path object we can
call the exists method to see if this file or directory exists
or not. To check to see if this path represents a file
we call is file, we also have
is directory, we can also extract individual
components in this path which is extremely useful, for example, let's
print path.name.
So this returns only the file name in this path.
We also have path.stem,
which returns the file name without the
extension. If you want to get the extension you can access
the suffix attribute, so this returns
.py, we can also get the parent of this path
so path.parent
and this returns the parent folder ecommerce.
Now here we have a couple other useful methods that I really like, one of them is
with name. Path.with_name. And
we can use this to create a new path object based on this existing path
but only change the name and the extension of the file,
so if I pass let's say file.txt.
We get a new path object here.
Now let's print this. So this returns
ecommerce/file.txt. We can also get the
absolute value of this path. So path.absolute.
Let's run the program,
so here's the absolute value of this file, obviously this file
doesn't exist yet, they're only representing it's path.
Now similar to this with name, we have another method with
suffix, and we use that to change the extension of a file. So,
with suffix, and here
I'm going to pass .txt. Now let's simply print
this path, so we get ecommerce,
/init.txt. Note that here we have not renamed the
file, we are only representing a path object. Over the next
couple lectures, I will show you how to rename files and directories. So,
these are the important members of the path class that we should note,
in the next lecture, we'll look at working with directors.